# Muscle-Power
MyoWare Sensor with Arduino  
Have you ever experienced shoulder pain or wrist pain from mouse and keyboard using? Do you want to do exercise while playing video games? Are you experiencing some injury at the moment and want some interesting ways to recover? Or maybe you just want to test how agile and strong your muscles are? Here might be a solution – using our muscles instead of keyboard/mouse to control the computer/video games!  
This project is a demo of this dream. A computer program is created to reads and analyzes the muscle signals input from a muscle sensor, hence allow us to use muscles to simulate the keyboard or mouse, as well as monitoring the performance of the muscle.  
In this project, the muscle signal is obtained by MyoWare™ Muscle Sensor. It is connected to the National Instruments USB-6009 data acquisition (DAQ) device to send the signal to the computer program, which is created using LabView.  
The MyoWare™ Muscle Sensor measures muscle activations via the electric potential changes on the skin, i.e. the surface electromyography (sEMG). The activation of a single muscle, like flexing the bicep, is coordinated by groups of motor units (a motor unit is made up of a motor neuron and the muscle fibers innervated by that neuron). Each motor unit undergoes charge-discharge cycles with different frequencies from 6 to 500 Hz. The sEMG is the superposition of several motor units’ electrical activities, range between +/- 5V (athletes!) and shows most frequency contents between 20 and 150 Hz.  
The MyoWare™ Muscle Sensor can output two types of analogue signals - the raw sEMG signal, and a modified signal (referred to as the MyoWare signal). The raw sEMG signal contains all the information collected by the sensor, as well as the noise. It is useful for studying the nature of sEMG, or when we need to look into the frequency components of the signal. For example, by comparing the Fourier Transforms of a raw signal when the muscle is just contracted with the one after the muscle is kept contracted for some time, we can notice that the main frequency contents shift from high frequencies to low frequencies, which indicates the muscle fatigue because of tiredness.  
The MyoWare signal is a filtered, rectified, amplified, and integrated (i.e. the sEMG’s envelope) signal. which makes it easier to work directly with a microcontroller’s analog-to-digital converter (ADC) without losing resolution. And the EMG signal appears to be within 0-250Hz range.  
The computer program contains two parts. The first part is for calibration. It runs before the second part and detects the threshold voltage between the relaxed muscle state and flexed state, which depends on the skin and muscle conditions. The threshold value is sent to the second part for action determination.   
The second part is the main part of the program. It simulates a keyboard action (e.g. the Space button is tapped) when the muscle is flexed and monitors muscle activities (e.g. the real time signal graph and counters/timers for how many times the muscle is flexed, how long the muscle keeps contracted (current value, maximum value and total value), and how strong the muscle flexes (current value and maximum value) ). A debounce function is designed in the program to eliminate the effect of unwanted sudden changes in the muscle signal (e.g. the signal fluctuates when the muscle is kept flexed, sometimes even drops below the threshold for a very short period).  
The process to use this program is very simple. Connect the sensor with the DAQ device, run the program, follow the instruction to calibrate, set the keyboard action needed for the video game, open your favorite game, flex your muscle and enjoy!  
